a stoic's end goal is to achieve
eudaimonia which is a state of
flourishing that arises when we live in
accordance with
nature but how do we live in accordance
with nature
the stoics believe that this requires
living rationally
and that rational perfection can be
found in virtue
simply put virtue is the path to a happy
life
one can characterize stoic virtue by its
instrumental as well as
non-instrumental value meaning that
stoics don't act for personal gain but
rather to benefit
the whole even if this includes the
rejection of pleasure and
the endurance of pain however at the
same time
this way of life leads to eudaimonia and
thus
living virtuously is rewarding for
oneself as a byproduct
but what if we don't live virtuously and
what misery comes from that
in stoic ethics we find the opposite of
virtue which is
vice vice can be subdivided into four
elements
obviously following these elements will
lead us astray
this video explores the four stoic sins
and possible consequences
as opposed to vice living virtuously
means that we do the right
thing for humanity including ourselves
is action-based meaning that we don't
need certain possessions or
circumstances
to practice it regardless of wealth
social status
gender ethnicity everyone has the
capacity
to live in agreement with nature this
doesn't mean however that material
things don't play a role
the stoics make a distinction between
two branches
of so-called indifference namely
preferred indifference
and dispreferred indifference preferred
indifference are generally experienced
as pleasurable like wealth good health
and social connections
this preferred indifference are not
experienced as pleasurable
like sickness poverty and being
surrounded by difficult people
the stoics recognize the human tendency
towards preferred indifference
as these can support and even reinforce
the pursuit of virtue
but even though indifference can
influence one's life to a great extent
they neither take away the opportunity
to live
virtuously nor the trap of ending up in
vice wealthy people can lead incredibly
destructive lives
while poor people can live very
virtuously
vice is a form of ignorance a wrong
stance
on how to live one's life that we can
adopt independently of external
circumstances
also every vice has an opposite virtue
there is foolishness opposed by wisdom
injustice opposed by justice
cowardice opposed by courage and
intemperance opposed by moderation
so how does one lead a miserable life
according to stoic philosophy
let's briefly explore each vice or sin
starting with foolishness
as opposed to a wise person a fool
handles the world
in ways that are destructive for both
himself as the world that surrounds him
foolishness means that we don't make the
right decisions and our actions
aren't born from good calculation and
correct knowledge
the chase of short-term pleasures in the
form of addictions
leads to long-term destructiveness
clinging to an impermanent universe
leads to pain and being overly occupied
with the future leads to anxiety in
short
behaving foolishly inevitably leads to
misery
therefore it's no surprise that stoic
literature is full of wisdom in regards
to all kinds of subjects
wishing to control a universe that is
totally out of control for example
is an act of foolishness according to
the stoics because
it's an impossible quest as epictetus
emphasizes in the ancoridian
if you wish your children and your wife
and your friends to live forever
you are stupid for you wish to be in
control of things that you cannot
you wish for things that belong to
others to be your own
so likewise if you wish your servant to
be without fault
you are a fool for you wish vice not to
be vice
and quote we can influence the world and
according to the stoics we should try to
benefit the world
but we can't control the outcome this
includes
that we cannot expect to rid humanity of
all rascality
and that there will always be people
that don't behave
well as this is part of human nature
thus trying to change the unchangeable
is foolish
as well the second one is injustice
many modern stoics focus mainly on
emotional resilience and the ability to
use
reason to find a sense of inner peace in
the midst of chaos
of course the experience of apathea or
equanimity
is an inherent part of reaching a state
of flourishing
however participating in humanity and
contributing to the harmony of the whole
is part of this as well virtue must
benefit
the collective and not solely the
individual
there are several underlying causes of
why people
behave in ways that aren't just take for
example the issue with greed
greed is an extreme preoccupation with
one's
self-preservation by believing that one
needs much
more than actually is the case it's
never enough
for a greedy person and this person will
enrich herself
often at the expense of others and not
uncommonly
through dishonesty and lack of integrity
we see in today's world the consequences
of greed
and the injustice that goes together
with it which undermines the quality of
life
for many people as well as animals and
nature as a whole
just because an insatiable minority
needs to have
more and more marcus aurelius wrote
injustice is a kind of blasphemy nature
designed rational beings for each
other's sake
to help not harm one another as they
deserve
to transgress its will then is to
blaspheme
against the oldest of the gods and quote
injustice not only damages the world
around us
it also damages ourselves when we are
unfair
disloyal and untrustworthy people will
distance
themselves from us the worst part is
probably that we cannot even trust
ourselves
because we neglect our ability to
discern between true and false
we have built our lives on lies and
deceit to gain pleasure
and avoid discomfort but as a by-effect
the truth
has become meaningless to us and so has
the path to virtue
the third one is cowardice we often hear
that people tend to regret the things
that they haven't done more than the
things that they have done
an underlying reason for this is that
too many times
we want to do things but are stopped by
mind states like
fear doubt or sheer laziness so we
abstain from acting
even if it's the right thing to do by
this behavior
we lose opportunities which leads to
regret
doing bad things leads to regret as well
but at least we acted
at least we can say that we have done
this and it didn't work out which also
builds experience
that we can share with the rest of the
world cowardice on the other hand
means that we don't act that we're not
willing or able to endure
and work hard it means that we fear life
rather than engage with it
that we hide rather than participate
that we avoid our problems
rather than confront them moreover
cowardice doesn't benefit the well-being
of the whole
when we don't raise our voices against
oppression and injustice
when we don't sacrifice for the less
fortunate when we don't work hard to
build a better world
where would we end up as a species the
stoic concern
with justice and apectida's plea for
contempt what's beyond our control
may seem paradoxical but again the focus
lies on our own actions
aiming to benefit the whole and
influence it positively
as much as possible as we can't control
the outside world
the aim is at least as important as the
result
possibly even more virtuous actions
require
courage without it we might end up
stagnant
unfulfilled and living a life of regret
the fourth stoic sin is intemperance
this vice is highly connected with how
we pursue
so-called indifference an ancient
philosopher named epicurus
argued that the right amount of pleasure
leads to happiness
he was an advocate of moderation a
little bit of wine for example
can be very pleasurable too much wine
however
leads to a hangover which isn't
pleasurable at all
the misuse of indifference which can
apply to things like food
television and watching series on
netflix leads to suffering in the long
run
intemperance is also a form of greed
that isn't uncommonly
associated with injustice and
foolishness
thus living intemperately isn't
beneficial to the whole
as it's got an exploitative nature to it
many people live in poverty
working in terrible circumstances for
petty wages
to fulfill someone else's indulgence but
for the individual
it's not a happy way to live either
always chasing to stuff ourselves with
food and drinks
endlessly browsing the internet's
naughty places or making sexual
intercourse the
center of our lives means that we seek
fulfillment in outside sources
when it's only to be found within so we
exhaust ourselves
and our environment searching what we'll
never find
to conclude this video i quote seneca on
the destructiveness
of vice vices beset us
and surround us on every side and they
do not permit us
to rise anew and lift up our eyes for
the discernment of truth
but to keep us down when once they have
overwhelmed us
and we are chained to lust
thank you for watching
[Music]
you